---
layout: post
title: Research Paper Report
subtitle: Personal information management
---

The research paper I read was [*An Exploratory Study of Calendar Use*](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/1775615_An_Exploratory_Study_of_Calendar_Use) by Manas Tungare, Manuel A. Pérez-Quiñones, and Alyssa Sams (2008), which I did find convincing. This study focuses on the main functions of calendar use in the everyday lives of the study participants; in this case, the study participants were all knowledge workers. The study finds that the main support a calendar gives its user is with regards to 'prospective remembering'. Essentially, the term 'prospective remembering' just relates to the saving of information for the purposes of future recall. The article explains that this practice is linked to a specific stage in PIM (personal information management) literature, the 'keeping' stage. The other aspect of this stage and calendar function that is different from prospective remembering is that of storing information for the sake of having a visual representation of the day. This is useful for recurring events that the user will not forget (the example of a Sunday-morning church ritual is given by the article) but will nonetheless want to plan around. The study revealed that most participants made frequent use of their calendars: 66% of participants said their calendar was "always open", and 21% of participants said they consulted their calendars "several times a day". The study also examined the information stored about events that people saved. Almost all events stored information about date (97%), time (96%), location (93%), and purpose (69%). Other fields, such as other attendees or guests, links or references to websites, and extra notes, were used less frequently. Interestingly, the study found that people added public events to their calendar even when they did not plan to attend, sometimes to "recommend to other people, for personal planning purposes, or to start conversations related to the public activity" (7).


This study is related to my group's project because it focuses on the organization of information through the use of a calendar. The event calendar of our app is central to it's functioning, and helps to address the problem of information overload discussed by this article. Integration with user's personal calendars is also a core feature, which depends on users' personal calendars being kept up-to-date. The study shows that for our user base (as our user base would largely correspond with the study participants), this is a reasonable expection, due to the widespread reliance on digital calendar management systems and the frequency of their use. The study's finding that information overload results from the many, varied sources in which event information comes to users also supports our projects premise. This suggests that an app like ours would provide at least a partial solution to this common problem. However, since our app would only help with the personal, entertainment/ interest based events, as opposed to work-related events or events relating to personal responsibilities, there is a danger that our app could just be one more information source for our users to manage. This could be avoided by making the integration with personal calendars as seamless as possible. If we were restarting our project, it might be interesting to consider how we could make our app more closely related to personal calendars, since they are so core to the way many people in our audience would already manage information. While we do integrate personal calendars, it could have been interesting to think about whether we could have designed the app such that this feature was more central to the way users interacted with it, rather than being just an additional option that they could choose to add on, or add as a filter. It could also be useful to have our app automatically add all event information in the form of a pdf or web link to the notes section of the user's calendar when they choose to export the event. This could be helpful since the study revealed that users do not usually add this information themselves, but it may be helpful for sharing the event with others, as the study showed was another purpose of adding events to a personal calendar.
